So this is my beautiful wireframe.
It looks daunting, but I promise you
it is not, it's just very modularized.
And it helped to understand
the flow of automation and
essentially from top down the dependencies
that are required to get to the bottom.
So we've talked about
automation providers,
we've talked about automation tools.
We've talked about repository,
source code providers and
networks, and
we've talked about a lot, right?
How do you merge all that together?
How do you blend all of that together
into a way that it makes sense,
that it feels easy to manage, and
it's something that you can
scale on as well, right?
And so what we're trying to do is we're
trying to take the LEGOs approach.
We're trying to say, okay, well, what are
the components that I need that change or
affect the different parts
of my infrastructure, right?
If I have networks, I need to
figure out how to create networks.
If I have clusters, I need to figure
out how to create clusters, right,
things like that.
And so where we start first is all
the way at the top, Terraform Cloud.
And again,
this is why we wanna make accounts for
Terraform Cloud because this is
where we're actually gonna begin.
And the reason for that is because this is
where all of our state's gonna go, right?
So going back to the whole Pulumi and
other things like that.
There's a reason why Terraform Cloud,
again, is so nice, and
it's out of the box solutions.
I don't have to set up Terraform Cloud,
really, I can just start working with it.
And so in this case,
that's where we start, right?
The next thing that we do is we solve the
next problem we talked about, permissions.
Permissions in access control, right?
So we don't immediately start saying,
okay,
let's create all of our resources and
automation.
We say, okay, we have two teams.
We have our DevOps team,
this is the isolation and
the scope of which that they maintain,
right?
And then here's the product team.
And I hope you see what I meant by what
you give developers access to [LAUGH] and
what you give DevOps access to, right?
And you can even see, DevOps even still
touches things that developers do.
But developers in the product teams
have access to manage their services,
we manage everything else.
And so our teams are really important,
right?
That's the next thing that we provision.
Then in the third layer, we have what are
called our automation repositories, right?
And so these are the repositories
that we will be building.
There's one, two, three, four, five,
I think there's one more, six in total.
But the five infrastructure components
that we're gonna be building are, one,
at least should be very straightforward,
and two, reusable across any cloud.
Okay, so I'm not saying that
the code inside is reusable,
I'm saying that the modularity and
the way that we build these components is.
Meaning that a provider
network should mean that you
should have a AWS network automation repo.
You should have a GCP repo for automation,
right, for network, so forth and so on.
And so with that mentality, the first
thing we do is we actually create one for
tfe, which is Terraform Enterprise or
Terraform Cloud.
Now, why do we do that and
why don't we go to source code?
Can anyone guess why we
might make a repository for
Terraform Cloud's automation first?
So the main reason is so that we don't
have to redo it later, [LAUGH] right?
If you start provisioning everything
with automation in the beginning,
then everything is automated, right?
And so before we even go into Terraform
Cloud and start creating teams manually,
which is something you might think to do,
we ask ourselves the question.
Can we automate this process actually,
too?
Could I actually make teams in
Terraform and have it manage that way?
And so that's what we do,
we create our first repository,
which is our terraform-tfe repository.
And the whole sole purpose of this repo is
to just go back up to Terraform Cloud and
provision all the things for us, right?
So what we actually do is we create
a Terraform Cloud account, right?
And then we set up our first
workspace to make it so
that it can essentially manage itself,
right?
And then what we do is instead of
coming here to make our changes,
right, GitOps, we come here, right?
So if I wanna add a new
team to Terraform Cloud,
what would I do in a GitOps approach?
>> Just add them to the base repo.
>> Yep, and then do what?
>> Provision access, I guess.
>> Yeah, merge and then let it run, yeah.
So the idea is that if I went here,
I don't know who did it,
I don't know when they added the team,
I don't know how they did it.
You know what I mean?
There's no real auditable track here.
But if we create our Terraform Cloud
account and then we just say, okay,
everything's automated, we lean into
that source of truth right at the gate.
And we say not only is all of our other
stuff managed through automation, but
also our Terraform Cloud automation
is actually in the same boat, right?
So that's where we start.
Once we have automation for this,
we can create teams in Terraform Cloud,
and we can create the next thing,
which is called workspaces, okay?
So workspaces are essentially
your automation pipelines for
the specific component that
you're trying to build, right?
So if I was to say,
I want my automation for
Terraform Cloud to be
managed by this repository,
then I probably need a workspace for
that repository to be tracked, right?
And that's the real takeaway here,
is each one of these tracks,
as you see down below,
its own repo as well, right?
And then that's the lowest part of it,
which is once we set up
our workspaces, we tell our
workspaces to go out to GitHub and
manage and
sync them from the repo that we're using.
So I'm gonna ask some questions here.
Actually, let me get through this
first and then I'll ask my questions.
So again, I've got my Terraform
automation now, right?
So my next question actually would be,
where would I go if I wanted
to make a new workspace?
Would I go here?
Go here?
Yes, yeah, I would go here, right?
Because again, although this is
what we set up, Terraform Cloud,
this is now the source of truth,
meaning technically we actually go here.
We go down to the repo,
we follow our normal GitHub's procedures.
And then once we merge,
it goes back up, and then it runs and
runs against Terraform Cloud like this,
and that's the actual flow.
So we make our changes here, goes back up,
and then this workspace goes out to
Terraform Cloud, creates the DevOps team,
the product team.
And then because we have
this cycle now right here,
right, we can now build other things.
So then we create our GitHub workspace,
we create our provider network workspace,
our provider cluster workspace,
and our product service workspace.
So my next question is,
where would I want to
go if I wanted to update GitHub repos?
I wanna add a new GitHub repo,
where would I go?
>> Same place.
>> Same place, here?
Here, no.
So technically, the only thing that this
manages is Terraform Cloud resources.
This is where we start separating
the automation from each other.
And so what we say is we say, here
everything is managed by Terraform Cloud,
and here everything is managed for GitHub.
Now, if you have a scenario where
you wanna create a workspace
that tracks a repo,
do you have to make one change or two?
What do you think?
So I wanna create a workspace and
a repo with automation,
where do you guys think
I would go to do that?
We said that we create
workspaces in which repo?
>> In the first one, so
you have to make it in two places.
>> Exactly, yes,
you would have to make it in two places.
You would first make it in terraform-tfe
to create the workspace and automation,
get that approved, right?
That goes out, creates your workspace.
And then you go to GitHub and then you
create your repository to then get tracked
for that workspace, or
you could do it any other way.
You could create the repository first and
then have the workspace track the repo,
right?
This is a decision.
The reason why I make this
decision is because I don't want
automation to dynamically create and
delete my repositories for me.
Can anyone guess why
that might be terrifying?
[LAUGH] Basically, you just make
sure you don't lose any code.
[LAUGH] If you bind your
repositories to other state,
they're gonna go and
disappear essentially with that state.
And so if somebody accidentally upstate
something somewhere else without
realizing downstream, that's gonna
delete a repo, that's a bit terrifying.
And so at Hippo, we choosingly
separate those processes just so
that APIs cannot delete repositories.
They can be archived, but
they cannot be deleted.
And so yeah, in this case,
what you would do is you would go to
terraform-tfe to create your workspace,
and then you go to terraform-github
to create your repository.
So we talked a bit about
multi-cloud as well, right?
And the next two repos really
are about that concept of, okay,
so we have a repo that focuses on a single
problem, which is Terraform Cloud.
And we have another repo that focuses on
a single problem, which is GitHub, right?
Well, now we need to focus on a specific
problem for a specific provider, right?
But we don't wanna make it so
we can just work with that provider,
we wanna make it so that if we want other
providers in the future, stuff like that,
we wanna have that flexibility.
So what do we do?
Do we go into our repo and
make a whole bunch of code and then
make a whole bunch of other code later?
No, what we can do is we can use
Terraform's concept of modules,
right, and
actually reuse those as workspaces.
And so the idea is that what
you do is you create a network
module that's just for Amazon, right?
And then you create a workspace
with parameters for that network.
Now, the idea is that this network,
it doesn't have a name,
anything that's unique to that network,
it should not be there,
those should be the configuration parts.
And then when we use that
module with Terraform Cloud,
we can tell it, hey, Terraform Cloud,
pass these values down to the module.
And so what this effectively now
makes it is that in this scenario,
going back to the whole repo and
two steps.
This actually makes it so
you only have to make one change
to create multiple networks.
Does that make sense?
Because the idea is you make it once, and
then you just reuse this repo over and
over and over again for
all of your AWS networks, right?
Now, here's the fun part.
Say I wanna add something to all of
my networks, is that hard or easy?
What do you guys think?
Say I wanna add a tag to all
of my networks in Amazon,
do you guys think that
would be difficult or easy?
>> Easy.
>> Easy, why?
>> It's-
>> Yep.
>> One module.
>> Exactly, yeah, that's the cool part
about this approach, is if you create five
workspaces with five different networks,
they all track the same repository.
So if you make a change to that one repo,
it will propagate and
trigger pipelines for all of
the workspaces that track that repo.
So this is the next part of why
this modularity is so nice.
Because what you can then do is you
can say, okay, well, let's make it so
everything in preproduction autoapplies,
right?
So we can keep making changes,
keep testing things, and
we don't have to touch things.
But in prod, we will make sure
that those manual applies so
that they go out in their own release
cycle with their own changes.
And we can handle that better,
making it easier to make
those changes to production.
That concept right there is how
you build cloud infrastructure.
That is really the sole part of making
it so that you can be multi-cloud,
right, and making it so that you can
create resources very, very fast.
And again,
you'll see how we do that here shortly.
But then because we have this concept now,
we can apply it to other things.
So we have a network now, so say I have
an Amazon network that I created, cool,
now I wanna make an Amazon cluster.
Well, would I add it to
the Amazon network repository?
No, because I wanna make more than one
cluster potentially in the future.
I wanna have a prod cluster, I wanna have
a dev cluster, right, things like that.
So if it's reused more than once,
it should be a module, right?
And if it's only used once,
it can just be a source repository.
But you'll see how I'm
using both concepts here,
where I'm saying these two,
they only manage one thing.
So we don't need modularity or any crazy
thing there, they can just be that.
But these ones, we need to make sure
can have names passed to them so
that when we create a network,
it has a specific network name.
When it's a cluster, we can tell which
environment that cluster's for, right,
things like that.
However, and again, because it's all
in one repo, when we wanna create
a new cluster, we don't actually
have to go to this repo to do it.
We now can lean on the power
of Terraform Cloud and
just create a workspace
that tracks that repo.
And the only difference between those
two workspaces are the parameters that
are passed to the module underneath it,
that's it.
So in five minutes, I can create a network
with over a thousand resources in
it just because I'm reusing a module
that I've already made, right?
Now, the last one, the product service
one, this one is a little interesting
because this one actually kind of
merges both of them together, right?
We said, okay,
we've got workspaces for one to one,
we've got workspaces for one to many, but
what about workspaces for many to many?
What about we have a scenario where I have
many services that have to go to many
cloud providers?
What do I do in that scenario, right?
Well, and I will say this, it's a bit up
to you, there's two different approaches,
you can take this, but
this is the one I'm taking for us.
Which is in the last repo,
we're actually creating a repo that will
handle service creation on any provider.
And inside of that repo, we're going to
create reusable modules for each provider.
Now, in this scenario,
the module isn't here, right,
the module is actually in the repository.
However, that's not the problem
we're trying to solve,
we're just trying to deploy our services
not to a specific cloud provider.
And this is where I say you can
kinda diverge here if you want.
You could also say, AWS-product service.
Can anyone tell me what that would mean?
>> Product is an app, functionality,
whatever within the company.
>> But it's on?
>> It's in Terraform.
>> No, it's on?
>> You mean that the clopper
lighter that you choose?
>> Yes, it's on Amazon, yeah.
And so
what I can do is then I can say, okay,
well, Amazon, Terraform product
service has a, I'm sorry,
there's a module inside of the product
service repo for Amazon, right?
And then there's also a module for
Google, right?
And what we do is then we can say,
well, I have an array of services,
all of these services use
all of these modules.
And again, that might not
make a lot of sense yet, but
the TLDR is that we're creating
modules in the repo instead of
using a module directly
to reproduce things.
And the main point is so that if we have
a bunch of services we wanna update all at
once, this avoids us having to
create a bunch of workspaces.
Cuz that's another alternative is you
can just create a project per service,
or yeah, per service, but
then it's also per environment, right?
Whereas we only really care about
environments more than services and
environments.
And so in this case, the single
repo solves the problem of saying,
these are all the product services in dev,
right?
These are all the product
services in staging, right?
And then this is all their
automation inside of it.
Questions, does anyone have any questions
on what you see in front of you?
So the main takeaway here is that these
are components, they're reusable.
And as long as we follow this methodology
of saying what problem are we trying to
solve, then we can create components in
a way that they solve our problems, right?
We said we needed networks,
there's our network module, right?
We recreate networks with that module.
We need clusters,
there's our cluster module.
We recreate clusters with that module.
We need services, cool, let's put all
the service automation in one repo,
deploy that to an environment.
What does that mean?
That means that you can take one repo
of automation and deploy your entire
service layer just based off of
the variables you give it, right?
So this means that, again, when I'm ready
to deploy product service to staging,
I just tell the workspace it's staging.
That's it, that's all I need to do.